1.

                          PREVIEW: M55 - KXIP VS CSK

What

Kings XI Punjab and Chennai Super Kings will vie for two points – albeit for varying reasons – in Match 55 of VIVO IPL 2019.

Even a massive win will not be enough to take KXIP to the playoffs; what a win will do though, is help them avoid the wooden spoon. KXIP have five wins from thirteen matches, and a win will definitely take them to seventh position in the eight-team standings.

The Super Kings will ideally want to register a win in this match because it will give the team some confidence heading into the business end, and because it guarantees then a first place finish – which comes with the added incentive of a second crack at qualifying for the final.

When

5 May 2019, 4pm IST

Where

IS Bindra Stadium, Mohali

Previous Match XIs:

Kings XI Punjab: KL Rahul, Chris Gayle, Mayank Agarwal, Nicholas Pooran, Mandeep Singh, Sam Curran, R Ashwin, Andrew Tye, M Ashwin, Mohammed Shami, Arshdeep Singh.

Chennai Super Kings: Shane Watson, Faf du Plessis, Suresh Raina, Ambati Rayudu, MS Dhoni, Ravindra Jadeja, Kedar Jadhav, Dwayne Bravo, Harbhajan Singh, Deepak Chahar, Imran Tahir.

Protagonists

Kings XI Punjab play with five only five specialist batsmen, and it therefore becomes important that one of those who bats in the top three bats deep. The openers KL Rahul and Chris Gayle are the team’s top run-getters this season, though neither has produced that one memorable innings. Mayank Agarwal has struck the ball brilliantly; his aggregate of 325 runs and strike-rate of 142.5 are his best in an IPL season. Given the form he has been in, the KXIP one-drop batsman will be disappointed that he has not been able to carry on and post more than two half-centuries this season. All three batsmen have one more opportunity to sign off with a big score.

Despite their successful campaign so far, there is a glaring shortcoming in the Chennai Super Kings line-up; their average opening partnership this season is 19.80, and their openers have managed to post a partnership of 50 or more only once in 13 matches. Heading to the playoffs, CSK will want their openers – Faf du Plessis and Shane Watson – to put on a much-improved performance.

MS Dhoni has consistently churned out runs this season and is CSK’s man-in-form, while Suresh Raina has chipped in with useful scores every now and then. The CSK captain has scored in excess of 350 runs this season at a strike-rate of 142.63 and his performance has masked the failures of the batsmen who have batted before him. Dhoni has the opportunity to add to his tally against his favourite opponent; he has scored more half-centuries against KXIP than against any other team, averages 58.50 against them – which is his highest average against any team, has a strike-rate of 158.11 against them – which is his highest against any team, and has 21 dismissals against KXIP – which is the most he has against any team.

Head to Head in Indian Premier League

Overall: Matches – 20, Kings XI Punjab – 8, Chennai Super Kings – 12.

Since 2015: Matches – 5, Kings XI Punjab – 1, Chennai Super Kings – 4.

What Next

Both teams conclude their league stage assignments with this fixture. If the Chennai Super Kings are victorious in this contest, they will head back to Chennai to compete in Qualifier 1 scheduled to be played on May 7; if they finish third in the table, they will compete in the Eliminator, scheduled to be played in Visakhapatnam on May 8.




2.

                                       MATCH REPORT: M50 - CSK VS DC

Match Recap

The Chennai Super Kings and Delhi Capitals swapped places in the VIVO IPL 2019 standings after the former defeated the latter by 80 runs on Wednesday night. In Match 50 played at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai, the Super Kings posted 179-4 batting first and then bowled out the visitors for 99 in 16.2 overs. The big win boosted CSK’s net run rate, which was -0.113 prior to the match, to 0.209. The Delhi Capitals’ net run rate took a beating; from 0.233 before the match, it slipped to -0.096.

In the evening, after being put in to bat, the Super Kings openers struggled to come to terms with the slowness of the surface. After Shane Watson was dismissed for a nine-ball duck, Faf du Plessis and Suresh Raina took the hosts to 27-1 in the first six overs. Both batsmen picked up several singles, apart from collecting the occasional boundary, and stitched together a crucial 83-run partnership. du Plessis (39 from 41 balls) was dismissed in the fourteenth over, and Raina (59 from 37 balls) was dismissed in the fifteenth over. MS Dhoni and Ravindra Jadeja then provided the flourish at the end; the pair added 43 runs in 3.4 overs to take their team closer to the 150-run mark. After Jadeja’s dismissal, Dhoni finished the innings in style, hitting three sixes, to take CSK to 179-4.

CSK were 53-1 at the half-way stage, added 49 runs in the next five overs, and finished off with 77 runs in the final five overs.

The Delhi Capitals had made things difficult after they had conceded 126 in the back half of the CSK innings. The visitors got off to a poor start when in the first over Prithvi Shaw cut one straight to the fielder at point. The Capitals’ men-in-form Shikhar Dhawan and Shreyas Iyer added 48 runs for the second wicket; their association would be the biggest of the innings. But once Dhawan was beaten in flight and castled by Harbhajan Singh, the wheels came off the rest of the innings. The spin pair of Imran Tahir and Ravindra Jadeja devoured the Delhi Capitals middle-order collecting all six batsmen batting between three and eight.

The only respectable score in the Delhi Capitals innings was from their captain Shreyas Iyer, who made 44 from 31 balls. He was dismissed in the twelfth over, courtesy a lighting piece of glovework from his opposite number. In all, eight Delhi Capitals batsmen were dismissed for single-digit scores.

For the Super Kings, Imran Tahir returned sensational figures of 4 for 12 without even completing his full quota of four overs, while Ravindra Jadeja bowled three overs for returns of 3 for 9. Harbhajan Singh (1-28) and Deepak Chahar (3-0-32-1) were the other wicket-takers.

Standout batting performances

Two performances stood out in the Chennai Super Kings innings; Suresh Raina made 59 batting at number three, and Dhoni scored 44 from 22 balls batting at four. Raina couldn’t have timed his return to form better; on a surface which provided plenty of assistance to the spin bowlers, the left-hander took toll of the Delhi Capitals tweakers, scoring 43 off 25 balls against J Suchith, Axar Patel and Amit Mishra.

Dhoni was in his elements at the backend yet again; he was 13 from 12 balls at the start of the nineteenth over, when he turned the heat on and scored 31 from 10 balls of the last two overs. He was quick in picking the length; anything short was pulled away and anything on length was drilled down the ground. The CSK captain closed off the innings in style, collecting sixes off the last two balls; the penultimate delivery of the innings was smashed into deep midwicket, and the final ball was pulled away backward of square.

Standout bowling performance

Imran Tahir and Ravindra Jadeja were CSK’s wreckers-in-chief. Tahir was introduced into the attack immediately after the powerplay, and he struck with his second delivery when he had Rishabh Pant caught at long-on. He then struck twice in his second over – the eleventh of the innings – when he first had Axar Patel reach out to a wide googly and edge to slip, and three balls later had Shane Rutherford slash one to point. After a quiet third over, Tahir returned to bowl the seventeenth and dismissed Amit Mishra, caught behind by Dhoni. Tahir’s figures at the end read 3.2-0-12-4; 12 of the 20 balls he bowled were dot balls.

Jadeja bowled the eighth, tenth and twelfth overs; he dismissed Colin Ingram LBW with his fourth delivery, and then had Chris Morris and Shreyas Iyer stumped in his third and final over. Jadeja’s figures read 3-0-9-3; he bowled nine dot deliveries and would be the only bowler in the match to not concede a boundary.

Stat of the Match

Chennai Super Kings’ 179-4 would be the highest total in VIVO IPL 2019 matches in Chennai.

Suresh Raina became the first fielder to take 100 catches in the IPL; the catch he took to dismiss Prithvi Shaw in the first over would be his 100th in the IPL.

Brief Scores:

Chennai Super Kings: 179-4 (Faf du Plessis 39, Suresh Raina 59, MS Dhoni 44*, J Suchith 2-28) defeated

Delhi Capitals: 99 in 16.2 overs (Shreyas Iyer 44, Imran Tahir 4-12, Ravindra Jadeja 3-9) by 80 runs.

Man of the Match

MS Dhoni, for his 44 not out, two stumpings and a catch.



3.

                                        MS DHONI FINED FOR CODE OF CONDUCT BREACH


MEDIA ADVISORY: Code of Conduct Breach

MS Dhoni, the Chennai Super Kings captain, was fined 50 percent of his match fees for breaching the VIVO Indian Premier League’s (IPL) Code of Conduct during his team’s match against Rajasthan Royals at Jaipur.

Mr Dhoni admitted to the Level 2 offence 2.20 of the IPL’s Code of Conduct and accepted the sanction.


4.

                                       QUICK STATS: M46 - CSK VS SRH




65.00  Chennai Super Kings’ win-percentage while chasing a target  - the highest among all current teams in the IPL.

39.30  Runs per wicket ratio for Chennai Super Kings in this edition –the highest for any side.

29  Runs scored by Sunrisers batsmen in the Powerplay – their lowest this season, also the lowest for any side against Chennai Super Kings.

7  Number of fifty-plus scores made by Kane Williamson in IPL2018. Only two captains have made more such scores in a single edition – Virat Kohli (11 in 2016) and David Warner (9 in 2016).

4  Number of hundreds made against Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL – three of them have come in this edition!

4  Number of hundreds scored in this edition. Chennai Super Kings batsmen have scored two of them.

3  Number of century partnerships between Shikhar Dhawan and Kane Williamson in this edition. No other pair has been involved in more than one century partnership!



